# Risk Assessment

Performing a Risk Assessment

1. The first step in the risk assessment process is to assume the software will be attacked and consider the factors that motivate the threat actor. List out the factors such as the data value of the program, the security level of companies who provide resources that the code depends on, the clients purchasing the software, and how big is the software distributed (single, small workgroup or released worldwide). Based on these factors, write down the acceptable level of risk. For instance, a data loss may cause the company to lose millions, especially if they require to pay fines nowadays with GDPR, but eliminating all potential security bugs in the code may cost $40,000. The company and some other stakeholder groups have to decide whether it is worth it; it is also crucial to communicate these tradeoffs. Hence, everyone has an understanding of risk and its implications. From a brand reputation perspective, if the attack causes damage to the company's image, it costs the company more in the long run than fixing the code.
2. The next step is risk evaluation. Include factors like the worst-case scenario if the attacker has successfully attacked the software. You can demonstrate the worst-case scenario to executives and senior engineers by simulating a ransomware attack. Determine the value of data to be stolen, valuable data such as the user's identity, credentials to gain control of the endpoints on the network, and data or assets that pose a lower risk. Another factor to consider is the difficulty of mounting a successful attack, in other words, its complexity. For example, if an attacker can gain access to the company's tool for giving feedback to colleagues or running retrospective meetings, it would have a lower impact than accessing a production environment's monitoring and alerts system. The high level of risk will not be acceptable, and it is best to mitigate it. For example, a vulnerability can be exploited by anyone running prewritten attack scripts or using botnets to spread the scripts to compromise computers and networks. Users affected are a vital factor.
3. Some attacks only affect one or two users, but the denial of service attack will affect thousands of users when a server is attacked. Moreover, thousands of computers may be infected by the spread of worms. The last factor is the accessibility of the target. Determine whether the target accepts requests across a network or only local access, whether authentication is needed for establishing a connection, or if anyone can send requests. It has more impact if an attacker accesses a production environment vs a sandbox environment used in local playgrounds for people to do labs or tutorials
